---
layout: post
title: Week 2 of Project
---

# Diving into Headings

For this week, I focused on making headway into the bulk of the posts I needed for my COVID-19 Information for Students by a Student webpage. I was able to create the posts for the sections "Testing," "COVID-19," "Guidelines & Restrictions," "Health Resources," "Schedule and Course Changes," "Sports Changes," "Traditions," and "Local Resources." I was able to add at least a few subheadings within each section. This will help me map out the amount of text work that is remaining so I can better manage my time as the due date draws nearer. I was, however, able to complete the first five sections with subheadings and body text. While these sections still need some editing, and perhaps even additional information, I'm happy with the progress I've made with each of them. At this time, I have decided to rework my plan of attack for completing this project. Instead of implementing design elements first, I will complete the body texts of each section in order to have a complete overview of the work. This will allow me to start creating a color guide and begin developing the navigation bar with the whole list of sections, rather than just some of them. Once that is done, I plan to implement my color and design guide into each section. Following this I will add categories to create the sticky navigation bar and hopefully create the bottom banner. Once that is completed, I can finally go into the body text and provide final edits or changes to the text. I know it is especially important to keeps all the information I've linked up to date, so I also plan to go through all my hyperlinks to make sure they are appropriate. Once all these steps are complete, I may add in more sections of "fun" things, but as of now I'm not sure I will have the time to complete that as well. I still have yet to find a guide to primer .scss, but I will cross that brigde when I get there.

Going forward, I am most concerned about creating the sticky navigation bar and bottom banner. Implementing design elements like that are completely out of my range of knowledge. While I know that Dr. Pilsch wanted this project to think big, almost as if we didn't have a limit to our coding knowledge, but it does worry me that without those elements, my website will prove to be underwhelming. I also worry that there will be some sort of legal problems with providing COVID-19 information, so I made sure to keep the section about testing simple and only provided links to official guidance.
